I’m 53 years old.
I was known as a troublemaker.
I was fighting in the bars.
It comes to a point to where
you begin to enjoy it.
He was flat-out scary.
He was a very mean and violent man,
so everybody
kind of kept their distance from him.
My language was detestable.
I would make grown men blush
by the things that I would say
and things that I would do.
I was involved with some bikers,
and they were trying to prospect me
into getting into their club.
Things were escalating.
We got married very young,
and we were 17.
And we had my oldest daughter.
I was the mom,
and he lived a life
of being out with his friends
and partying.
About that time, my wife started studying
the Bible with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
It was a big change for her,
but she explained the reasoning behind it.
I couldn’t argue with it.
She talked me into studying.
I studied from 20 years old to 30.
I had always seen it.
I had always seen that it was good.
I knew that this was where I needed to be.
Somehow, I just could never break free
of the person that I was.
My mom always raised us in the truth,
growing up, and that’s what we knew.
So, then, to see my dad,
where he was so different
but yet believed it to be the truth,
and then to see that his lifestyle
didn’t do him any good
was kind of a good example
of a bad example, if that makes sense.
I was afraid of the change.
People accepted me for who I was,
being the tough guy, being Jimmy Brown.
The scripture comes to mind:
“I planted, Apollos watered,
but God kept making it grow.”
Many brothers have studied with Jim
from time to time over the years.
I just happened to be the one
at the time in his life
when he was taking the truth
and running with it.
I wanted to be a better person.
I truly knew that this was just
not the way of life that I wanted anymore.
He changed his friends;
he changed his life;
he changed his dress and grooming;
he changed his speech patterns;
he changed the way he was a grandfather;
he changed the way he was a father;
he changed the way he was a husband.
Everything changed about him.
I knew the work that Witnesses do
—going out door to door talking to people.
I thought I could never do that.
Whoa!
Me, going door to door?
I’m going to run into people that I know,
that I drank with for years and years.
How can I face them now?
I had always told my wife,
“It would be much easier for me
to become a Witness if I didn’t live here.”
But how wrong I was
because what a witness my changes have been
to so many people in town.
One of my favorite things to do
is bridge witnessing with my granddaughter.
People are fishing on the bridge
—some have been there all night.
I even have return visits that I do
because people regularly
come down on the weekend
to fish on the bridges.
I seize every opportunity.
My kids laugh at me.
He’ll witness to anybody, anytime, anywhere.
You’ll see some raggedy-taggedy,
old, rough guy
that he knew
and brought to the Kingdom Hall.
In a few weeks,
he’s got a new suit on,
got a haircut,
clean-shaven, and just—
This is the effect he has on the people
that he comes in contact with.
I love life now.
I have true friends.
I know that I have hope for the future.
Jehovah has seen something in me,
and he’s brought it to light
that I am a good person.
I can be a good human being;
I can help other people;
I can be loved by Him.
It’s priceless.